# greenlight

- Tue 27 all day
- Thu 29: not 10:45 - 12:15 and not after 16:00
- Fri 30: after 10:00

# questions

- Subjump correct?
- Need handler around operation body, instead of only the continuation
  - Koka does only continuation
  - Don't see any problems with the whole body
  - Elab now also has an elab around the body.
  - The problem with subjump is that it takes functions that are called in the
    body, but they need effects (in particular, it needs `jump`), but they need
    to be algebraic
- Syntax for handler and elaboration types?
- Maybe handlers should be explicit about their effects

Possible problem with the type system:

```rust
let abort_on_false = fn(f: fn() <|e> Bool) <Abort|e> () {
    if f() { () } else { abort() }
}
```

There's no way to specify that `abort_on_false` has the same effects as `f` but
that it must include the `Abort` effect. That's a bit annoying, unless we no
longer model effect rows as multisets but only as sets? In which case if `e`
already contains `Abort` then adding it no longer changes the row.

Well, actually, that might not be true, it could be

```rust
let abort_on_false = fn(f: fn() <Abort|e> Bool) <Abort|e> () {
    if f() { () } else { abort() }
}
```

I think that this is especially ok if we allow the effect rows to be smaller
than the context (which we do right now by opening them, but could be more
explicit), because if we then do operations like removing an effect, we can then
always add it back, which has the same effect as adding it twice. The exception
is effects with type parameters, which would need to be unique in the set.

The halfway-ness between checking for inclusion or summing is kinda weird
though. It would definitely warrant some language design musings in the thesis.

# subjump?

# musings

- We need more types and polymorphic types for good examples.
  - At least some `Maybe` type otherwise we can't even properly do an abort
  - We could do it with a default value though
  - Though there's not really a rush
  - Arrow could also be a constructor maybe? At least it would work similarly.
- For better examples, I want to reconsider recursion support, even if
  divergence is not an effect.
- For logic programming we also need lists, for which recursion would be very helpful.
- Idea for introducing Elaine:
  - Simple program without effects
  - Simple programs with algebraic effects:
    - Val (Reader without local)
    - Abort
  - Simple programs with higher-order effects:
    - Reader (with local)
    - Exception
  - Examples for the hefty algebras paper
    - SubJump & transactional state
    - Logic programming

# fixes & improvements

- Number of function arguments now checked (missed that earlier)
- run-unchecked command to identify places where type checker fails but
  evaluation works.
